=pod

=head1 Internet Appliances with MisterHouse FAQ

This will try to cover info an tips on using various internet applinaces
like the Epods and Audrey with MisterHouse.

=head1 What is an internet appliance

A broad term used to cover any thing cheaper than a computer that hooks up 
to an ethernet port.  A couple of examples:

 - Web browsers used as touch screens
 - Ethernet connected MP3 players
 - Internet radios
 

=head1 What is an epod

An epod is a hacked WinCE webpad. 640x480 color
touchpad display, 16MB memory, cf and pcmcia slot. I connect mine wirelessly
using a D-Link card/access point. Epods are selling for about $300 on EBay.
Check out:

  http://www.geocities.com/epodsfiles/
  http://www.linux-hacker.net/cgi-bin/UltraBoard/UltraBoard.pl?Action=ShowBoard&Board=EpodsOne


=head1 What is an Audrey

In Fall of 2001, the discontinued 3Com Audrey were being liquidated 
by tigerdirect.com for $90 (originally $500).  With a 640x480 LCD
touchscreen, it makes for a nice web appliance / touch control pannel.

Here are some helpful links:

 Order: http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?sku=M975-9000%20P
 Hack:  http://www.audreyhacking.com/
 Faq:   http://www.3rdmoon.com/crusso/audrey/
 List:  http://www.linux-hacker.net/cgi-bin/UltraBoard/UltraBoard.pl?Action=ShowBoard&Board=3Com_Audrey&Idle
 OS:    http://www.qnxstart.com/

=head2 How to boot Audrey to a mh page

From Ron Wright from some other site on 10/2001

I has hacking away and realized that the 
/data/XML/channels/.countertop/TEMPLATE directory has 
the default index.shtml that loads up when Audrey 
boots. So I tried adding a refresh meta tag to this 
file and rebooted. It worked just as I had hoped it would.

Now it loads the intro screen for a few seconds 
(5 in my case) and then "refreshes" to open my control 
panel for the house. Works great and appears to be safe 
enough for my wife to use now.

Just add this tag to the index.shtml file mentioned 
above. I added mine just below the first meta tag:

 <meta HTTP-EQUIV="refresh" CONTENT="5;URL=http://192.168.0.1:8080/audrey/audrey.html">


=head2 How to stop the Audrey from auto-upating

From Ron Wright from some other site on 10/2001

I have also edited the kcrontab file to keep Audrey from
trying to update her channels.  I found before doing this,
everytime she tried an update it was changing the page
back to default audrey welcome.  Also the initial reason
for the above change.  This just makes it one better.

Losing kcrontab entries

If you have the root shell hack on the audrey options panel, you can.

1) Get into the shell 
 cd /config
 cat kcrontab >kcrontab.sav
 exit

2) Deselect broadband and all the download times

3) go back to the shell
 cd /config
 edit kcrontab.sav to save what you want
 cp kcrontab.sav kcrontab

All better

BTW My kcrontab looks like this

 -MemDefrag;15;19;*;*;*
 setitime;23;19;*;*;*
 maild;/5;*;*;*;*


