=pod

=head1 Mister House Install Instructions 

=begin html
This file (mh/docs/install.html) is for the installation instructions.
The main Mister House documentation is in <a href="mh.html">mh.html</a>.
A list of update announcements is in <a href="updates.html">updates.html</a> 
There is also a <a href="faq.html">faq.html</a> to cover misc. topics.

=end html

=head1 System Requirements

Mister House has been tested on Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000,  and the 
unix OSes Linux, FreeBSD, and AIX.  In theory, much
of the function should run on any platform that can run Perl.  

The core Mister House code will use between 10 and 30 Megabytes of memory.
On Windows, the VR (Voice Recognition) function 
takes about 10 MB and the TTS (Text To Speech) function takes about 15 MB.  On Linux, the Festival TTS engine
takes about 20-30 MB of memory.  So, with TTS enabled, on Windows you can get by with 32 Meg, but you will 
need 64 Meg or more to run with low speech latency. 
See FAQ question 1.2 for more info on memory usage.

The cpu time used -vs- loops per second is controllable.  On a 100 MHz Pentium with a 100 ms sleep time,
mh uses about 20% of the cpu and gets about 8 passes per second.


=head1 Quick Install Instructions

These are the quick instructions for those of you who, like me, don't like to read instructions:

=head2 Windows users

 - Download the the misterhouse_src_###.zip and misterhouse_win_###.zip files
   from  http://misterhouse.net/download

 - cd to where you want the mh directory created in (e.g. c:\misterhouse). 
   Avoid directories with spaces in the name (e.g. \program files\)

 - unzip \downloads\misterhouse_src_###.zip (wherever you downloaded it to)

 - unzip \downloads\misterhouse_win_###.zip (wherever you downloaded it to)
 
 - cd mh\bin

 - mh.bat (this will call mh.exe or 'perl mh')

=head2 Unix users

 - Download the the latest rpm, tar, or zip file 
   from http://misterhouse.net/download

 - If using the rpm file:
     rpm -i misterhouse-#.##-1.noarch.rpm
     docs are installed to /usr/doc/misterhouse-#.##, everything else is in /usr/local/mh

 - If using the tar file:
     cd to where you want it the mh directory created in (e.g. cd /projects/misterhouse)
     tar -xzvf misterhouse-#.##.tar.gz

 - If using the zip file:
     cd to where you want it the mh directory created in (e.g. cd /projects/misterhouse)
     unzip -aU /downloads/misterhouse_src_###.zip (wherever you downloaded it to) 

 - Run Configure to convert C serial headers to perl headers:
    - cd mh/bin
    - chmod +x configure
    - su   (to run configure as root)
    - ./configure
    - exit (to switch back from root)

 - ./mhl (if that doesn't work, try: mh or perl mh)

=head2 Tips

To use less memory and cpu, or if you get graphics related errors, 
you can run without the local gui inteface with:  mh -tk 0

The default setup runs all the test scripts in the mh\code\test directory.
Point your web browser to http://localhost:8080 and try out a few commands. 
Also try 'telnet localhost 1234' and type one of the commands you saw on the
web interface (e.g. 'say something good to Bruce').

=begin html
See <a href="#Coding_your_own_events">Coding your own events</a> for info on how to customized mh.
<a href="updates.html">


=head1 Windows Detailed Install Instructions

=head2 Windows Step 1, Download and Install Mister House

I you already have perl installed, you only need to download the main misterhouse_src_###.zip package.  If you do not have perl
installed, you will also need to download the compiled mh.exe file, which is in the misterhouse_win_###.zip package.
Both are available from http://misterhouse.net/download .

The 2 MB misterhouse_src_###.zip file installs into 5 MB of disk space.
The misterhouse_win_###.zip takes an additional 3 MB of disk space.  
The compiled version is not any faster, it is just more convenient
if you do not need Perl installed for any other programs.

Change to the drive/directory you want mh installed to (e.g. c:\misterhouse).
Avoid directories with spaces in the name (e.g. \program files\).
Files/dirs with spaces in them complicates perl code, as you have to then quote file names for the space valid.
Now unzip the file(s) using your un-zipper of choice
(use the -d if using pkunzip to preserve the directory structure).
Look in the mh/lib directory to 
make sure long file names were preserved (e.g. http_server.pl).  If not, you can download unzip from 
http://misterhouse.net/public/unzip.exe .

=head2 Windows Step 2, Download and Install Perl

You can skip this step if you downloaded the compiled version of Mister House.

Download and install Perl version 5.005_02 (or higher) from 
http://www.activestate.com/ActivePerl .
The 5 MB zip file installs into about 15 MB of disk space.
Currently, MisterHouse with Perl 5.6 has a memory leak problem, so you will probably want to use
the older 5.005 build 522, available here: http://activestate.com/download/ActivePerl/APi522e.exe .

After installing the core Perl package, you need to install the Tk package.  mh will run
without Tk, but the Tk gui interface gives it more function.
Activestate has provided ppm (Perl Package Manager), a nifty new way of automatically downloading
and installing packages. Do this by logging on to the internet and typing:

   cd \perl\bin (modify to match your directory)
   perl ppm install Win32-API  (ppm is ppm.pl in older perls)
   perl ppm install Tk
   perl ppm install Tk-JPEG
   perl ppm install DB_File

The Tk package is about 2 MB, so it will take a while. If you are behind a www proxy firewall, 
try setting the environment variable http_proxy=http://proxy-server:port
If you have problems installing the files with ppm over the internet, you can download the files 
and install them from local storage. For example, to install the Tk package: 

  download and unzip Tk.zip from http://www.activestate.com/PPMPackages/zips to c:\temp
  ppm install c:\temp\Tk.ppd 

All other required packages should either be in the mh distribution or is now installed by default in the 
standard Activestate distribution.


=head2 Windows Step 3, Download and Install the Speech Engines

You can skip this step if you do not want to enable TTS and VR, but much of the fun of
Mister House comes from the 2-way speech. If you are running NT 5.0, you should be able to skip this step,
as this function should already be installed. The Creative Labs PhoneBlaster software also installs this function.

If you are running Win95, the Perl OLE interface to the MS speech engines
require that you have DCOM 1.2 or higher installed.
The DCOM 1.3 upgrade is 1.2 Meg and available at 
http://www.microsoft.com/com/dcom/dcom95/dcom1_3.asp .

If you are running an older Win98, you will need the DCOM 1.3 update, available from:
http://www.microsoft.com/com/dcom/dcom98/dcom1_3.asp .
If you don't have this update, mh will run, but you may occasionally see windows (like control pannel or install shield)
not start right away, especially if you run without the Tk interface (mh -tk 0).

You can use either the old 4.0 or new 5.1 or both Microsoft speech engines.
This mh release supports the 5.1 TTS engines, but not the VR engine yet. 
The 5.1 TTS engines have more option (e.g. on the fly voice selection, XML flag support),
but does not work on Win 95. 
You can have both engines installed, and select which to use with the voice_text=MSV4 or MSV5 mh.ini parm.

=head3 MS SDK 4.0 instructions

You can download the required files from the 4.0 SDK from here: ftp://misterhouse.sourceforge.net/pub/misterhouse/ .
Note: IE takes a long time (5 minutes) to list that directory (maybe it is listing the 20,000+ dirs in pub).
An ftp program works much faster.
Or you can also get the files here: http://misterhouse.net/public/speech
Avoid downloading with Netscape, as for some reason it does not load the file as a binary file. 
Verify the file sizes match these:

   7674104 Aug  6  2000 msttsl.exe
   6935288 Aug  6  2000 mscsrgl.exe
   1013356 Aug  6  2000 speech_api.zip

Running msttsl.exe will install the TTS engine.  mscsrgl.exe will install the VR engine. 
Unzip speech_api.zip, then run spchapi.exe to install the speech API.  

Unzip msvoice.zip from speech_api.zip into a directory to store the msvoice app in (e.g. /misterhouse/msvoice). 
Then run msvoice.exe to start the "Microsoft Voice" application. 
Once running, you can use the "Voice Command Options" menu from the green V in your tray to pick your default voice.

Other TTS engines, including those for British English, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish
can be downloaded from http://www.nextup.com/TextAloud/SpeechEngine/voices.html

=head3 MS SDK 5.1 instructions

In theory, the 5.1 MS TTS and VR engines can be installed separately, but they are distributed from Microsoft
only as .msm files, which can only be used by a program that creates .msi install files.  I have not yet found
an easy and free way to create a .msi file (suggestions welcome).  So for now, the only option is to install the 
full 70 mb 5.1 SDK, available from here:  http://download.microsoft.com/download/speechSDK/SDK/5.1/WXP/EN-US/speechsdk51.exe

After installing, the default mh.ini voice_text=MS parm will default to the new V5 engine.  Use MSV4 to switch
back to the old V4 engine.   So far, the only voices I have found for the V5 engines are the 
MS Mike, Sam, Mary, and (optional) Japanese and Chinese voices that come with the SDK.   


=head1 UNIX Detailed Install Instructions

=head2 UNIX Step 1, Download and Install Mister House

Download the rpm, tar, or zip file from http://misterhouse.net/download .

Install the file as detailed in the quick install instructions.

If you choose to use the zip file instead, make sure you 
use the -a to automatically get rid of those pesky /r characters that DOS like to add to newlines.
Also, the unzip -U switch (contrary to what the help text says), 
will be needed on newer versions of unzip to preserve case on filenames. 
Then run the configure script (as root, see quick install instructions) 
to delete dos/windows only files, and 'chmod +x' on the files in the bin directory.

=head2 UNIX Step 2, Download and Compile Perl

Most, if not all, UNIX installations now have perl installed by default.  If for some reason, yours does not
or if it is an older version of perl, you can downloaded the latest from http://www.perl.com .

Run 'perl -v' to show your version ... anything above 5.005 should be fine. 
The current Redhat 5.2 version of Linux comes with 5.004.  This works OK, but we have had some problems 
compiling the current Tk interface with 5.004, so you may want to upgraded to 5.005.

If you want to use
the Tk interface (used to display logs and various pop-up messages), make sure that the perl Tk package is installed as well.
If the Tk is not installed, this test will fail:  perl -e "use Tk".   If you need it, you can download perl Tk from 
http://www.perl.com/CPAN/ .  If you can
also try the CPAN installer like this:

  >su root
  >perl -MCPAN -eshell
  cpan> install Tk
  cpan> install Tk::JPEG
  cpan> install DB_File
  cpan> install Term::ReadKey
  cpan> install Time::HiRes
  cpan> install Audio::Mixer  (if on Linux)
  cpan> exit

There are some example start/stop/restart .rc files in mh/bin/misterhouse*.rc

=head2 UNIX Step 3, Download and Install a Speech Engines

You can skip this step if you do not want to enable VR or TTS.

The IBM ViaVoice Voice Recognition engine is available at
http://www-4.ibm.com/software/speech/dev/sdk_linux.html .
You don't need the VR dictation, so just download the smaller 'Command & Control Run Time Kit'.

After downloading, install viavoice by running (as root) run tar -xf viavoice_sdk_rtk_2.tar and then  
follow the tar file readme.txt instructions.  Note for our usage, you will not need
any of the gui menus, so if rpm tells you that you have down level or missing libraries (e.g. libgdk),
you can probably ignore that by adding the rpm --nodeps option.

As the readme.txt instructions state, you should probably run the viavoice code as non-root.
Here is one way to allow non-root access to the microphone:

  chmod go+rw /dev/dsp*
  chmod go+rw /dev/audio*


The viavoice SDK FAQ can be found here at
http://www-4.ibm.com/software/speech/dev/faq_linux.html .
It includes suggestion on what to do if you get rc=90 when you start viavoice_server (you must first enroll that id).
The faq also covers how you can move training files and non-English from the (non-free) windows version.

After running the rpm commands, you can find other documentation in 
/usr/doc/Viavoice.
bpreadme.txt shows how to use the /usr/lib/ViaVoice/bin/buildpol tool to 
improve accuracy on words using phonetic spelling.
Section 2 of the skreadme.txt file details how to 
create a speech and entrollment ids.  Here is an example of the commands
that I used (as user id bruce, not root):

  /usr/bin/vvsetenv 
  /usr/lib/ViaVoice/bin/vvuseradm -newuser -userid bruce
  /usr/lib/ViaVoice/bin/vvuseradm -newenrollid -userid bruce -enrollid bruceid
  /usr/lib/ViaVoice/bin/vvuseradm -userid bruce -enrollid bruceid -setdefault

Lastly, run the /usr/bin/audiog program (requires motif or lesstif from lesstif.org to be installed)
to set volume and recording levels, and viavoice is installed.
You may want to also use a program like xmixer to select what the sound source is if, for example,
you want to monitor the line input instead of or in addition to the mike input.

To enable viavoice from mh, set the viavoice parms in the mh.ini file, run mh/bin/viavoice_server_start, then 
start mh.

The IBM ViaVoice Outload TTS engine for Linux can also be downloaded from the above IBM sdk url.
To use it with mh, you need to install Brad Reed's ViaVoiceTTS.pm module from
http://www.reednet.org/ViaVoiceTTS  , then set your mh.ini voice_text=vv_tts .

The Festival Speech engine is available from
http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/download.html .
There are various voices and languages available.  Compiling Fesitval can be a little tricky, 
so if you can, you will probably want to use the RPM files.

Once you have downloaded in and installed or compiled Festival, you can test it with the following commands:


  echo 'Hello from Festival' | festival --tts 
  festival --server &
  echo '(SayText "Hello from the festival client")' | festival_client

You can also run the client, or a simple telnet, from a different box, but you first have to create 
a /usr/lib/festival/lib/siteinit.scm  file with a list of boxes that you want to give authority to.  (e.g. 
(set! server_access_list '("localhost" "house\\.isl\\.net"))  ).  See the festival documentation for more details.

David L. reports that there is a different engine for festival called MBROLA at
http://tcts.fpms.ac.be/synthesis/mbrola.html 
that has a very nice US english male and female voice.

Once you have the festival server running, you can enable mh to use it with mh.ini parms voice_text and festival_port.


=head1 Testing Mister House

Edit x:\mh\bin\mh.ini and change the appropriate parms.   It should run just fine with the 
default parms,  although your sunrise/sunset times will be for Rochester, MN :)

If you decide to use mh, you will want to copy the parms you
change to your own parm file and point to that with the mh_parm environmental
variable (see the mh.ini header for details).

If you are on Windows and you are not using the compiled mh.exe,
you may need to edit the last record of the mh.bat file to point to the correct
directories where Perl and the mh are installed. 

Next, cd to x:\mh\bin and then type: mh hello_print.pl. This will load the x:\mh\code\test\hello_print.pl
file which is a simple event that prints some uptime info every 30 seconds.
Since we did not include the tk*.pl members, the tk interface will not be displayed

From the console window, hit the ENTER key to bring up a control menu, 
then select the "Exit menu" item to exit.  Or use Ctl-C.

Next, if you have installed the speech engines, try the hello_speak.pl event (e.g. mh hello_speak.pl). 
This will speak the time and date once a minute. It also creates one VR command.

If you are a Windows user and have the VR engine installed, make sure
the green MSVoice V icon is in the "Listening for Voice Commands" mode, try saying, "What time is it?"
You can list all the available commands by right clicking on the V and picking "What can I say?"

To run all of the sample code in the test directory, do not specify any files (e.g. just type mh).
This also reads the common code in mh/code/common.
Here are a few of the commands enabled by files in the test directory:

  "What is the trivia question?" and "What is the triva answer?"
  "Read the deep thought"
  "Say something bad to Bruce"
  "Say something good to Bruce"
  "Set a timer for 5 minutes"
  "When will the sun set"
  "Say hello to bruce"

Try "Set the clock via the internet" to set your computer's clock according to an atomic clock.

To send a test email to yourself, try "Send test email".  This requires that you fill out the net_mail 
parms in the mh.ini file.

To retrieve and display the latest top 10 list from Letterman's Late Night show, try "Get the top 10 list".

You can control any of your serial, X10, and voice items with a frames capable web browser by pointing
it to http://localhost:8080 . Note, the port number is controllable
via mh.ini http_port parm. If you do not have any other web server running, you may want to change it
from the default of 8080 to 80 so that you can use a simpler address of http://localhost .

You can also tailor the web interface to your liking by creating a new member in the \mh\web\mh directory and changing
the html_file mh.ini parm.  For example, you can preview an alternate interfaces with
http://localhost:8080/mh_brian/index_2.html or 
http://localhost:8080/mh_brian/index_3.html .

Windows users can also setup a Windows Active Desktop entry so this interface is available all the time on your desktop!

In addition to the voice and web interfaces, you can type these commands on the Tk "Enter Command" field
or from the DOS command line using the house command.
For example, from a DOS command prompt, try typing:  'house Show the top 10 list'
You can also speak or display any arbitrary phrase or file with the commands
"Display file" or "Speak phrase" (e.g. 'house speak hi there').   These commands are simple bat files that create 
commands in the "xcmd_file", whose location is controlled with a mh.ini parm.  You can have your own program put commands
in this file as well.  Lastly, you can type all these commands via a telnet localhost session or via a socket port, if you have the telnet.pl
member enabled.

Here is a summary of the different ways you can control mh:

  With a voice command
  Through a web browser and whatever html you want to set up.
  By typing a command on the Tk Control Window
  By typing "house command" from a dos box
  By having whatever program you want create a command in the xcmd_file
  By a TCP socket, for example, using telnet localhost


Use your favorite editor to review and try some changes to any or all test members. On the Mister House
window, use the F1 key to re-load your changed code. If you introduced an error, it will sound a long beep,
spit out some errata showing the error, and then it re-loads the old error-free code.
There is lots of other code you can peruse in the mh\code\Bruce directory. This is all the code that runs our house!


=head1 Installing Hardware

Without any interface hardware, mh is pretty limited. It can do some simple time of day based events
and voice based events, but that is about it. Currently, Mister House
supports the X10 CM11 (aka ActiveHome) and CM17 (aka Firecracker) 
interfaces and all the Weeder kits (analog, digital, x10, phone, available from from 
http://www.weedtech.com ).
Other supported hardware is listed in
http://misterhouse.net/mh.html#List_of_supported_hardware_inter .


Currently, the X10 guys have a $50 deal for an ActiveHome kit, which includes the CM11 interface.
 Check it out at http://www.x10.com .
See FAQ question 6.5 for more info on X10.

If you want more than just X10, you may want to go with the Weeder X10 Kit. 
One advantage of the Weeder kits is they can all share the same serial port.
The X10 kit, however, costs more ($40 + $25 for a TW523 module if you don't already have that, 
$10 for a serial and a phone cable), and doesn't support the extended X10 data 
that the CM11 does (e.g. preset dims).

After plugging in the Weeder X10 kit or a CM11 interface into a free serial port, update the 
Weeder_port or cm11_port parm in the mh.ini file to point to that port and try a simple example, like test_x10.pl in the test directory. 

If you are getting 'bad checksum from cm11' messages, mh is haveing problems talking to your cm11.
If on windows, make sure the X10 ActiveHome software works to verify you have the right port.
If on unix, you can try heyu:  http://heyu.tanj.com

Support for any serial port device can be coded by using the generic Serial_Item objects. 
For example, a ham radio enthusiast has interfaced to his GPS (Global Positioning Satellite)  to keep track of his car's location 
(see his tracking.pl code in the code/Public directory)

Support for any device that speaks with sockets over your network can be added using the Socket_Item objects.

=head1 Coding your own events

After you have played with the the default test code for a bit, you will want to start setting
up your own code and data directories.  Here is an example:

   c:--+
       +--misterhouse--+        <--- my copy of mh.ini lives here
                       +--code      <--- my code
                       +--data      <--- my data
                       +--sounds    <--- my sounds
                       +--mh----+   <--- mh installed here
                                +--bin
                                +--code
                                +--data
                                +--docs
                                +--lib
                                +--sounds
                                +--web


Assuming you have mh installed in c:\misterhouse\mh, the steps might looks something like this
(using the DOS commands, as I think unix guys can make the translation :):

 mkdir c:\misterhouse\code 
 mkdir c:\misterhouse\data
 mkdir c:\misterhouse\sounds

 copy  c:\misterhouse\mh\code\test\trivia.pl c:\misterhouse\code
 copy  c:\misterhouse\mh\bin\mh.example.ini  c:\misterhouse\mh.private.ini
 xcopy c:\misterhouse\mh\data                c:\misterhouse\data /s


 edit  c:\misterhouse\mh.private.ini

   - Delete all the records from your mh.private.ini that you don't change 
     since the default mh\bin\mh.ini will also be read.

   - Change these entries
      code_dir         = C:\misterhouse\code
      data_dir         = C:\misterhouse\data
      sound_dir        = C:\misterhouse\sounds
       

 On windows, add this to your autoexec.bat:
   set mh_parms=c:\misterHouse\mh.private.ini

 On unix, add this to /etc/profile or like place:
   export mh_parms=/prog/misterhouse/mh.private.ini

Now when you run mh, it will read just the *.pl files in c:\misterhouse\code.  
After mh is up and running, copy in the other members from mh/code/test that
you think might be useful and click the Reload button to read them in.
Adding a member a few at a time might be useful if you are trying to find an error.
By default, the code files in mh/code/common are always read (you can disable this
or point to a different directory with the mh.private.ini code_dir_common parm).

The first thing you will want to do is create an items.mht file that declares
all your X10 items (see mh/code/Bruce/items.mht for an example).  Alternativly, you 
can declare each of your X10 items in the first code member you use it in.  In either
case you can use the "List X10 items" command created in mh_control.pl to review all
your X10 items.

To enabled password protection, run set_password.  Note: only the first 8 characters are used.

When you want to upgrade to a newer verion of mh, follow these steps:

 cd \misterhouse
 rename mh mh_old
 unzip \downloads\misterhouse_src_###.zip
 unzip \downloads\misterhouse_win_###.zip




