
=pod

=head1 Internet Appliances with MisterHouse FAQ

This will try to cover info and tips on using various internet appliances
like the Epods and Audrey with MisterHouse.

=head1 What is an internet appliance

A broad term used to cover any thing cheaper than a computer that hooks up 
to an ethernet port.  A couple of examples:

 - Web browsers used as touch screens
 - Ethernet connected MP3 players
 - Internet radios
 

=head1 What is an epod

An epod is a hacked WinCE webpad. 640x480 color
touchpad display, 16MB memory, cf and pcmcia slot. I connect mine wirelessly
using a D-Link card/access point. Epods are selling for about $300 on EBay.
Check out:

  http://www.geocities.com/epodsfiles/
  http://www.linux-hacker.net/cgi-bin/UltraBoard/UltraBoard.pl?Action=ShowBoard&Board=EpodsOne


=head1 What is an Audrey

In Fall of 2001, the discontinued 3Com Audrey were being liquidated 
by tigerdirect.com for $90 (originally $500).  With a 640x480 LCD
touchscreen, it makes for a nice web appliance / touch control pannel.

Here are some helpful links:

 Order: check ebay listings (average cost ~$50 )
 
 Hack:     http://www.audreyhacking.com/
 Ether:    http://www.ppetru.net/audrey/#ether
 Faq:      http://www.3rdmoon.com/crusso/audrey/
 List:     http://www.linux-hacker.net/cgi-bin/UltraBoard/UltraBoard.pl?Action=ShowBoard&Board=3Com_Audrey&Idle
 OS:       http://www.openqnx.com/
 MrAudrey: http://mraudrey.net

   features already included in the MrAudrey Image will be denoted with ** in the remainder of this FAQ

=head2 MrAudrey (MisterHouse + Audrey + hacks + ...)
Pete Flahertys MrAudrey Site contains a compilation of the information and hacks listed in this FAQ.
 The site has information on just about anything audrey related, and a forum to help with questions.
 
The MrAudrey image was created specifically for use with MisterHouse. Many of the features and hacks on this
faq are already installed and ready to run.  Additional packages and channel content are availabe through the
mraudrey package manager.  The image has been designed for flexibility and ease of customization. There are 
many features on this image that are simply not on any other.

MisterHouse Channel content was the original design focus. Adding all the standard functionality that 
users were hacking into their images was a natural addition And easy customization and access to essential
parameters was achieved through the unique package manager and settings pages. Giving the MisterHouse community
the most unique and functional audrey image around

=head2 Some common hacks

Here are some common/useful hacks (edit these file to these values):

  echo 1 > /config/BROWSER_AllowNewWindow
  echo 0 > /config/SYSTEM_ScreenSaveSecs  (disable auto-shutdown)
  ** available through the MrAudrey 'photon' menu


To improve color resolution (do this on boot, before browser starts)
  echo 0 > /config/BROWSER_Use256Colors
  ** set by default

If you press the Browser button while the browser is already visible, the menu will slide away.

You may want to increase the size on these:

 /config/BROWSER_ImageCacheSizeKB 2048 (Had problems increasing this to 20000)
 /config/BROWSER_CacheSize        5000 (I changed to 50000) ** MrAudrey default

Here are some instructions to allow turning the screen on/off remotely:

 http://homepage.mac.com/deandavis/audrey/AudreyOnOff.html

Note, the above simply turns the screen off.  Not quite the same as the power button 
which also disable browser refreshes.

=head2 Remote Audrey browsing and control

Create a HOSTS entry to point to your audrey address (available from the
About Audrey -> Provile icon on the Audrey Options menu).
For example, edit c:/WINNT/system32/drivers/etc/hosts
and add 192.168.0.101 Audrey).

Assuming you have already done the above AudreyOnOff hack, try these urls:

 http://audrey/Channels/.Channel00/.template/index.shtml
 http://audrey/SystemProfile.shtml
 http://audrey/cgi-bin/GetSystemValue?kcrontab
 http://audrey/cgi-bin/GetSystemValue?Timeserver0
 http://audrey/cgi-bin/SetLEDState?1  (2 blink, 0 off)
 http://audrey/gpio.shtml?0 (screen off, 3 for on)



=head2 How to boot Audrey to a mh page

>From Ron Wright from some other site on 10/2001
** MrAudrey channels are pre configured for MH, and can be set to 
   start on any available MH page

I has hacking away and realized that the 
/data/XML/Channels/.countertop/TEMPLATE directory has 
the default index.shtml that loads up when Audrey 
boots. So I tried adding a refresh meta tag to this 
file and rebooted. It worked just as I had hoped it would.

Now it loads the intro screen for a few seconds 
(5 in my case) and then "refreshes" to open my control 
panel for the house. Works great and appears to be safe 
enough for my wife to use now.

Just add this tag to the index.shtml file mentioned 
above. I added mine just below the first meta tag:

 <meta HTTP-EQUIV="refresh" CONTENT="5;URL=http://192.168.0.1:8080/audrey/audrey.html">
 ** MrAudrey has a master setting for your MH server, available through a settings page

=head2 How to stop the Audrey from auto-upating

>From Ron Wright from some other site on 10/2001

I have also edited the kcrontab file to keep Audrey from
trying to update her channels.  I found before doing this,
everytime she tried an update it was changing the page
back to default audrey welcome.  Also the initial reason
for the above change.  This just makes it one better.
** MrAudrey already has these disabled

Losing kcrontab entries

If you have the root shell hack on the audrey options panel, you can.

1) Get into the shell 
 cd /config
 cat kcrontab >kcrontab.sav
 exit

2) Deselect broadband and all the download times

3) go back to the shell
 cd /config
 edit kcrontab.sav to save what you want
 cp kcrontab.sav kcrontab

All better

BTW My kcrontab looks like this

 -MemDefrag;15;19;*;*;*
 setitime;23;19;*;*;*
 maild;/5;*;*;*;*

=head2 How to share files

Assuming a hacked shell like DaveC-Img10-23-01, 
you can share access Windows shared folders with this command
** MrAudrey has these and other methods for mounting remote systems
   and there is a menu entry that can me easily changed to ease this

 /nto/bin/fs-cifs -a //windows_box:ip_address:/share_name /directory user password

For example:

 mkdir /mp3
 /nto/bin/fs-cifs -a //mp3_server:192.168.0.2:/mp3s /mp3 guest guest

If using DaveC image, you can do this on startup by editing /kojak/remotemount.sh,
called from /kojak/go

=head2 How to play mp3 files

>From Tony Perrie on 10/2001:

Assuming a hacked shell like DaveC-Img10-23-01.
** MrAudrey supports this, as well as PhJukebox, and plaympeg_noph methods
   playmepg_noph has support for the MisterHouse jukebox too

I setup a little shell script to start the photon player:

 export MPEGAUDIOBUFFERSIZE=300000
 export MPEGAUDIOBUFFERSTARTPERCENT=90
 export MPEGAUDIOREFILLONUNDERFLOW=YES
 phplay &

The default priority on fs-cifs and phplay is 19 which is the lowest.
You'll probably want to up the priority on fs-cifs and to keep the photon player
from skipping with:

 slay -P 5 fs-cifs
 slay -P 5 phplay


=head2 How to push speech to remote Audreys
** MrAudrey - installed and enabled by default (in background mode)

There are 2 ways to do remotely play wav files on an Audrey.  One plays a wav file in the foreground by 
creating a popup window, the other uses playsound_noph to play wav files in the background.  
Both ways requre you first enable remote control (see 'Remote Audrey browsing and control' above).

To enable the foreground wav playing, add this mh.ini parm (this is the default):
 
 voice_text_address_code = run 'get_url -quiet "http://$address/cgi-bin/SendMessage?M=GOTO_URL&S=$url" /dev/null'

Now simply use the address argument when calling speak or play.  
For example (substitute in you Audrey ip address(s)):

 speak "address=192.168.0.101,kitchen Hello to the study";
 play   address => 'study', file => '../sounds/hello_from_bruce.wav';
 play   address => 'study,kitchen', file => '../sounds/hello_from_bruce.wav';

To install playsound_noph, first download and unzip it from Keith Webb's site:  http://www.planetwebb.com/audrey .
Note, you do not need to be running qnx.  A normal hacked Audrey works fine.

Next, create this a file called playsound.shtml with these records:

 <html><head><title>Shell</title></head></body>
 <!--#exec cmd="playsound_noph $QUERY_STRING &" -->
 </body></html>

Now copy 3 files over to your Audrey(s).  
Here are the commands I used from my Audrey to copy the files from my windows house c:/temp directory: 
 
 mkdir /house
 fs-cifs -a //house:192.168.0.2:/c /house guest guest
 cd /house/temp
 cp playsound_noph    /nto/photon/bin
 cp soundfile_noph.so /nto/photon/dll
 cp playsound.shtml   /data/XML

Finally, add this mh.ini parm:
 
 voice_text_address_code = run 'get_url -quiet "http://$address/playsound.shtml?$url" /dev/null'

And use the speak and play examples from above.
More examples are in mh/code/bruce/audrey.pl
